---
layout: post
title:  "Mail Art and the Digital Age"
date:   2017-01-31 23:34:56 +0530
---

I think it's fair for me to start by saying that coming from a completely technical background, I feel a bit behind on a lot of the terms used in the art world. *Fluxus*, *Avent Garde* ... it was all foreign to me. That being said, the more I looked into mail art and these movements on my own, the more I bought into and appreciated what it had to offer. I am a big fan of what seems to be this sort of <a href ="https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/736x/d4/0e/dc/d40edce89ff1f29556ca752e1982c24d.jpg">counter-culture</a> in art. Mail art falls into this category, and while I had my reservations at first, is a novel way of approaching art.

I love getting letters in the mail. There is something about how infrequently it occurs and how carefully thought out the letters usually are that make receiving them so special. For this reason, I could see how mail art is especially exciting. It is something to look forward to, and for me, the delay that post mail offers adds to the enjoyment. (I will get to the digital age in a bit.) I like how mail art does not seem to have any boundaries and is open to everyone who wants to participate. The article mentioned how galleries were exceptionally critical of displaying sent mail in a gallery, but I think they are missing the point. Its not about the quality of the pieces, but more about the process and the mystery and unknown and excitement. If you are to go to a conventional gallery, you know beforehand what you are getting yourself into. but going to a mail art exhibit you may find anything. That is what mail art seems to be all about. It is an alternative to the exclusive and judgemental nauture of traditional galleries.

While mail art grew up with the post, new advances in our digital age have allowed mail art to take a virtual form. Mail art purist say that it isn't the same (to which I somewhat agree, nowadays we are so saturated with technology that physical items are refreshing...) but others say that they are missing the point. Mail art is about communication and openness - it is art as a larger network, and the internet provides the perfect medium. With the rise in social media, is it fair to say that platforms like instagram are unintential mail art galleries? Surely instagram satisfies all of the mail art 'considerations' as posed by Mario Lara and Leo Spiegalman - Instagram has no fee, it has no jury, there is nothing really to return, all work is exhibited, and everything available on the platform is cataloged in the apps search functionality. As new technologies arise it will be interesting to see how the world responds with art.

-m/
