---
layout: post
title:  "Net Art Discussion"
date:   2017-02-14 10:11:56 +0530
---

_I am live writing this blog post as the group discusses net art_

1. Paul is making a good point about how net art is about presentation, and how the medium is for viewing. Paul is showing 'marathon 55' which I really like. It reminds me of steroscopic photo.
2. There is a really interesting point about how net art relies on the user's specification. Marathon 55 'live loads' the images causing some lag based on the viewers internet speed. I think it is neat how the viewers network changes the way the piece is presented.
3. The netsleeping piece is a bit creepy. It makes me uncomfortable to see people sleeping.
4. We are watching a piece about satellite photographs and the way memory leaks cause disturbances in the photo. It blurs the line between what is human and what is computer generated. Is this art just something that he found? Did he scour google maps until he found glitches? To me that is more of presentation.
5. Saqif is making an interesting point about material design and how before, the screen was looked at as a portal. Today, with material design, we are trying to replicate the real world in web design as much as possible. It is interesting to see the shift from accepting the virtual as different to trying to emulate real life as much as possible.
6. We had a great talk about material design and how it is causing web design to become this 'cookie cutter' style.
7. Paul is showing us a piece of net art that opens a bunch of pop ups all over the screen. What I find interesting is that Paul had ad-blocker on, so the art didn't load until he disabled it. This is interesting to me because the artist has to consider the limitations of the browser. 
