---
layout: post
title:  "P1 Mail Art"
date:   2017-02-02 10:11:56 +0530
---

##### Post 01
I am brainstorming ideas for the mail art project. I want to do something with music, but I also am intrigued by the idea of sending love letters to people.
I think for the scope of this project music would make more sense, sense love letters are a bit more personal and I have to send letters to everyone in the class. In terms of music I think it would be neat to study how different people perceive different visuals and what type of music it makes them think of. I am considering setting up a web app to accomplish this.

##### Post 02
Work is going well. I have decided to go with the music idea. I have set up a small web app integrating the spotify and firebase APIs. I am using spotify to gather 30 second previews of songs that people choose, and firebase to store these songs in a database that I can fetch from. I am thinking of hosting on github using the same domain that this blog is on. Shouldn't be too bad. The only thing I am concerned about is how little time we have with this project. A week or two is not enough time at all to get the web app to the point that I want it to be - especially trying to use two different APIs. I am spending a lot of time on the web part of things (because that is where I am comfortable) and I worry I am going to run out of time.

##### Post 03
We had time to work in class today. I focused on the web app again. It is coming along nicely, but I have decided to forgo a lot of the features I had initially wanted like blurring the other songs if someone hadn't submitted yet as to prevent choice bias. Oh well. I still think it is coming along nicely.

##### Post 04
I am working on creating the visuals for the mail art piece. I am thinking of using sketch as a primitive tool to create visuals. Since sketch is less "artsy" than adobe products, I think it fits the goal of my project well. I am not trying to capture any particular emotion with these - the idea is to keep them intentionally vague. For that reason shapes and shades of a monochromatic greyscale color palette will be perfect. I am going to create a series of four visuals that all only use lines, squares and circles aligned in different ways. It is challenging for me to lay out these shapes in a nice way, but I am not letting my though guide me in any particular direction. Again, I want these to feed random and not thought out. I do not really want to sway the direction of the music choice in any particular way. But I do want them to differ enough such that each captures a different type of music from my audience.

##### Post 05
I am back to working on the web app. The code isn't quality code but I think it fits the project well. The shoddy code almost fits the feel. I need to get it done as quickly as possible since it's basically due today. I think I can send my mail out now and continue working on site improvements because the mail will take a bit to arrive. Hopefully the UI is intuitive enough for people. I was proud of the modularity I implemented in this small site. I created a js file for the general functions that apply to all the pages and it works well. [DON'T REPEAT YOURSELF]
