---
--- layout: post title:  "Experiments in Art and Technology [E.A.T.]" date:
---
2017-02-10 10:11:56 +0530 ---

"9 Evenings" was an experiment between art and engineering that at the time,
pushed the boundaries of what was considered art. Many of the performances
shocked the audience, and the art world. My response today has less to do with 9
evenings itself, and more to do with the implications and expectations of
pushing boundaries in art. In class, we discussed a dance by a progressive
choreographer that was quite literally hours of performers walking through a
door and stripping naked before repeating the cycle. This looped indefinitely,
until the audience began to tricked out of the auditorium. One member of the
audience even stood up and shouted "this is not art!!" In class we discussed how
the artist behind this performance intended to continue this loop until the
audience became distressed. He was recording the audience, and wanted to see how
long it took to break them. This performance was intended to shed light on
conventional expectations of art, and demonstrate how we, as consumers of art,
need to open ourselves to expanding boundaries. The artist was trying to prove
that people would leave and denounce his exhibit because it did not conform to
their expectations. My question is a bit meta - but what were the artists'
expectations of the audience? How long was he intending on continuing his loop?
To me it seems as though he knew the audience would crack, and he himself has
expectations as to how the audience would react. To me, this is not pushing the
boundaries of art. Pushing the boundaries means going outside of current
conventions and having confidence in the work you are producing. It means being
on the edge of innovation, and challenging ideas. What pushing boundaries is not -
performing something eccentric with that expectation that the audience will have
some sort of distaste simply because of how radical it is. Just because you are
doing something differently does not automatically qualify you work as radical
or boundary breaking. This example strikes me as a condescending work
purposefully intended to piss people off. You are not a trailblazer in your
field if you know you already expect your audience to dislike your work. You
need some sort of confidence to prove your work can break boundaries, of which I
did not find in this piece.

I really wish to understand eccentric performance art, and how artists who are
intending to push boundaries believe they are doing so. On one of the first days of class this semester, Rene talked about how sometimes art just doesn't click, and it can take years to find that in certain pieces. But much of the boundary breaking art that we have been looking at hasn't clicked with me yet, and I'm trying to understand how I can think about it differently to help understand it's importance. I think coming from such a technical engineering background, it can be hard for me to understand what is important to the art world.

-m
