---
layout: post
title:  "Final Project Ideas"
date:   2017-02-10 10:11:56 +0530
---

### Ideas for Final Project

###### Kinect
For this project I would like to take a data cloud of points from a person dancing in front of a kinect, then run some visualizations on the point cloud to do something interesting.

###### AR
I have written about this before, but I would like to do something about showing the personal side of mundane objects using AR.

###### Processing
I would like to do some sort of music visualization in processing.

### Actual Implementation

My project focuses on the issue of hyper-masculinity in advertising and film,
and the imposition of the male gaze on the gender as a whole. After reading a
number of articles and journal entries regarding identity and selfie culture, I
noticed a pattern in that most articles mentioned how popular culture in film
centralized around the male gaze, which objectified woman and placed the viewer
in a male centric perspective. Almost every article I read mentioned this male
gaze, and I struggled to find any redeeming criticism about male artists dealing
with identity. There seemed to be a double standard. What I then became
interested in was how Males perceive the male gaze. All of what I was reading
about the male gaze and identity described it as Males only being interested in
the objectification and sexualization of woman. But how does a male perceive
this perspective? I do not mean to deny that there exist blatant objectification
in the media, but what bothers me is the way these ads make it seem as though
this is all Males are interested in. As a Male, I struggle to voice my opinion
that not every male holds this hyper-sexual view. I believe there exists a
hyper-masculinized male gaze in the media, especially in advertising, that
create this notion that to be a Male, you have to be strong, love to drink beer,
not be interested in art, and hope to get with as many woman as possible. If you
do not prescribe to this idea, you are not a man.

 As a male looking through the male gaze, it is just as troubling. My project
 attempts show this by using a kinect sensor to simulate walking through a world
 of hyper-masculinized photos. On the surface, and from afar, the photos support
 and reinforce this masculine ideal. The accompanying music is deep and muffled.
 As you walk closer to the screen, the images start to become more
 individualized and away from the central idealized identity. The start to
 become their own and slow down in speed. The music becomes more clear. This is
 to represent walking away from the surface level ideal of males as presented in
 the male gaze, and towards being an individual.


 ### Afterthoughts

 I thought my project was a success. I really enjoyed working with the kinect and hope to use it in the future. I also was a huge fan of the processing library that I used. It is incredible how easy processing makes it to work. I really enjoyed the research aspect of this project, which was something I have never done before. Looking deeper into art and its meaning was really neat, and it got me more interested in sociology. If I were to do this again, I would have liked to have tried to photograph my identity and use those pictures rather than taking others from instagram.
